This directory contains the Leech Heart Interneuron Timing Circuit Model and
Tutorial by Andrew Hill, Steve Van Hooser, and Ron Calabrese.

To run the tutorial, you'll need three items, two of which are in this
directory:

1)  The GENESIS neural simulator, which can be obtained at:
        http://genesis-sim.org/GENESIS/
2)  Extensions to GENESIS (leech-libraries) - included in the official Genesis 2.4 release
3)  The tutorial files (leech-tutorial)

You need to make some extensions to GENESIS before you can run the model.  You
can either compile the libraries on your own computer and add them to your
GENESIS program (follow the instructions in the README file inside the
leech-libraries directory), or grab a pre-compiled GENESIS if one is
available for your platform.  A pre-compiled GENESIS for PC Linux is available
on this CD (genesis-linux.bin), and more may be available on the Calabrese Lab
website (http://calabreselx.biology.emory.edu/software).

Instructions for running the model are contained in the README file in the
leech-tutorial archive.  Briefly, type "{genesis} tutorial.g" in the
leech-tutorial directory, where {genesis} is the name of your GENESIS
application.

Updates to the tutorial and model will be available on the Calabrese Lab
website (http://calabreselx.biology.emory.edu/software).

These files contain GENESIS scripts for an 8-cell network model of the leech
heart interneuron beat timing circuit.  To run, you need GENESIS with a couple
special extensions.  You may obtain these along with their installation
documentation from

            http://calabreselx.biology.emory.edu/software.html

To run the tutorial for the model, type 

                  lgenesis tutorial.g

from this directory, where lgenesis is the GENESIS executable.  So that the
tutorial can find the support files it needs, you'll need to actually run the
tutorial from the same directory as this README file.

The tutorial has introductory material and help contained within it.  You should
not need to access any of the material contained in the "tutorial", "intro",
or "model" directories directly--they merely contain support files for the
tutorial.

Note 1:  You may want to make sure you have GENESIS working before running this
tutorial.  A quick test would be to run GENESIS with no command arguments to
make sure that it opens and shows a prompt.  You may have to copy the ".simrc"
file from the GENESIS/startup directory if you are using GENESIS for the first
time.

Note 2:  For technical reasons, loading a saved parameter set only works if 
you have write access to the tutorial directory.  If you do not have write
access to this directory, you'll need to either make a copy of the whole 
directory to a place where you have write access or modify the loadscript.g
function in the tutorial folder.  Instructions are given in the comments of
that file.

Note 3: This is a very minor technical point, but ...
When you run the tutorial, you will see a control panel.  The button marked RESET will 
execute the reset command as well as restore the state variables from an ascii file called 
start_state_asc.g.  It is necessary to restore the state variables in order for the model 
cells to oscillate properly.  Alternatively, the simulation may be started from a binary 
file by using the Init Cond. button. This method is more complete because some fields in 
genesis are hidden, preventing them from being accessed by the getfield or setfield commands. 
